#####Python is a very dense language, with lots of modules capable of doing almost anything. Python also has a massive environment of extra modules that can provide functionality in hundreds of different disciplines.  

1. Everything in python is an object. You can check to see what class this object is an instance of with the command 'isinstance(object, class)' The command returns a boolean value.  

2. When dealing with Files, you need to create a file object to interact with it. The file command takes a string with the file name and location and creates a file object instance. You can then call the file object methods like 'open', 'read' and 'close', to get data out of the file. If you are doing file processing, you can also use the 'readline' method. When opening a file, there is an explicit 'open()' command to simplify the process. It takes a string with the file name and an optional parameter that is a string which defines the mode. The default is to open the file as read-only('r'). Also for writing('w') and appending ('a').  

3. You can do multiple threads of execution within Python. The 'thread()' command can create a new thread of execution for you. It follows the same techniques as those for POSIX threads. When you first create a thread, you need to hand in a function name, along with whatever parameters said function needs.  

4. Since objects and the names that point to them, are truly different things, you can have objects that have no references to them. One example of this is the **lambda** expression. With this, you can create an anonymous function. This allows you use functional programming techniques within Python The format is the keyword 'lambda', followed by a parameter list, then a colon and the function code. For example, you could build your own function to square a number with 'lambda x:x*x'. You can then have a function that can programmatically create new functions and return them to the calling code.With this, you can create function generators to have self-modifying programs. The only limitation is that they are limited to a single expression, you one can't generate very complex functions.  
